# README_Generate_RLTRN_Field

README file discussing the contents of /Scripts/Generate_RLTRN_Field/ folder. Author: R.R. Riggin, July 2023

# Summary

Dr. Branden Katona (CIWRO; branden.katona@noaa.gov) generously developed a python3 script that processed 30-m Digital Elevation Models (DEM) from USGS to follow the methodlogies of Soderholm et al. (2014) and Katona and Markowski (2021) to derive a CM1-ready realistic terrain file (i.e., perts.dat). For our study-specific realistic terrain file to be generated by this script we required DEM data within 34-40º N, 87-78º W (i.e., the south-central Appalachians), which is available online via https://www.usgs.gov/the-national-map-data-delivery. These DEM tiles are also currently hosted on my Google Drive and will remain there as long as storage space allows.

Google Drive Link to DEM Data: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1XGyAbT-jg4WBm_bq4o8Ex-cYgrXEBUUZ?usp=sharing

# Folder Contents

1). RLTRN_DAT_Files: 
This folder contains two cm1-ready realistic terrain field files used during this study. The first is a dx = 1 km file which was used for testing and model spin-up. The second is a dx = 250 m file which was used for the final simulations discussed in the publication. Both files are configured for a model domain of 600 x 500 km. These files must be renamed to perts.dat in order to be read by cm1 during model integration. Additionally, itern == 4 must be set in the namelist in order for cm1 to utilize these files.

2). Realistic CM1 Terrain Final.ipynb:
The Jupyter notebook provided by Dr. Katona to generate our realistic terrain fields. 

3). generate_realistic_terrain_from_dem_CM1.py:
My personal interpretation of Dr. Katona's Jupyter notebook into a script that performs the same process while generating a reference figure (Fig. 2).

# References

Katona, B., and P. Markowski, 2021: Assessing the Influence of Complex Terrain on Severe Convective Environments in Northeastern Alabama. Wea. Forecasting, 36, 1003–1029, https://doi.org/10.1175/WAF-D-20-0136.1.

Riggin IV, R. R., C. E. Davenport, M. D. Eastin, K. E. McKeown, S. M. Purpura, and B. T. Katona, 202X: Idealized Simulations of Supercell Thunderstorms Interacting with the Appalachian Mountains. In Prep.

Soderholm, B., B. Ronalds, and D. J. Kirshbaum, 2014: The Evolution of Convective Storms Initiated by an Isolated Mountain Ridge. Mon. Wea. Rev., 142, 1430–1451, https://doi.org/10.1175/MWR-D-13-00280.1.
